---
title: "DO NOT READ THIS BLOG"
tags: [ astrophotography, observatory, widefield, galaxy, Milky Way ]
classes: wide
author: jeffreygeiss

header:
  teaser: assets/images/avatars/jeffreygeiss.jpg

gallery:
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-1.jpg
    title: observatory-1.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-2.jpg
    title: observatory-2.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-3.jpg
    title: observatory-3.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-5.jpg
    title: observatory-5.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-6.jpg
    title: observatory-6.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-9.jpg
    title: observatory-9.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-4.jpg
    title: observatory-4.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-7.jpg
    title: observatory-7.jpg
  - image_path: /assets/images/observatory/observatory-8.jpg
    title: observatory-8.jpg

---

If you’re here to learn more about astrophotography I strongly suggest you stop reading now and go Google cat memes or puppy pics.

You could always find a nice novel to fill your time. 

Bike riding is a healthy hobby.  

The grass needs mowing.

Hang gliding?

Weed? 

<!--more-->

{%
  include figure image_path="assets/images/avatars/jeffreygeiss.jpg"
  alt="Jeff at his rig"
  caption="Jeff at his rig"
%}


No? You're going to continue reading? Ok, but you have officially been
warned. This hobby, nay this obsession, even with a little toe dipped into the
water may be detrimental to several key components of your healthy human
lifestyle.

First, your wallet will be affected.  Depending on how big your wallet is, how
close to 750 your FICO is and how resourceful you are, this fact may be a deal
breaker.  Astrophotography (AP) Is not cheap. For example: there are pieces of
glass the same size as a half dollar coin that cost 800 bucks, used. You will
want one, you will want many of them, you will justify them, you may learn how
to use PayPal to hide the purchase of them.  A significant other may never
understand or approve of such an expense.  If money is no object, then
congratulations on making great financial choices up to this point! But you
better prepare your psyche for some budget busting shopping sprees! The more
disposable capital you have, the bigger your dreams will become. Part of the
goal of this blog will be to help limit the number of bad choices you're going
to make. I’ve made a bunch; I know others that made some whoppers. I can’t/won’t
make your decisions, but I will share my experience how I started AP with hopes
to enlighten your decision-making abilities.

Second, your personal relationships will take a hit. Yes, you will bore your
friends and your family with news terms like Focal Length and Full Width Half
Maximum. You’ll see their eyes glass over when you explain the principle of auto
guiding and the benefits of flat, dark and bias frames!  And don’t forget the
acronyms. AP, GEM, CCD, CMOS, FW, and OAG just to name a few. Your daughter may
roll her eyes when you show her science teacher your newest SHO narrowband image
of the Pickering’s Triangle during her curriculum night. Your spouse may protest
the seemingly magically appearance of newly framed images of your latest deep
sky targets. You will find yourself spending a clear moonless January night out
in a frozen field rather than spent in your heated home. At least until you
build your remote obsy.

Which leads us to the third detriment to your life, your overall health.  You
will most likely lose sleep. More likely, you’ll lose lots of sleep. If you're
lucky enough to be able to shift the rest of your life to the right 4 or 5 hours
after the all-night imaging sessions, then congrats this may be easier for you
than I. But if you're like me and weekday mornings always start at 5:30am you
will undoubtably lose sleep. You will save the all-nighters for the moonless
weekends, but there are no free lunches when it comes to sleep. Making up this
deficit during the days off work and you will lose time for the lists of things
most of us must complete on those weekends. Sleep will be lost; you won’t get it
back and it can affect your health.

This has been my warning for those beginning Astrophotography. Not deterred?
Good, then let's go on a journey that will allow you to capture and record
photons of light that emitted from galaxies millions of years ago. Timeless
particles captured by a slice of silicon the size of a postage stamp and then
processed in a computer with your own hand, eyes and mind. Welcome to
Astrophotography.

-Jeff G.

{% include gallery id="gallery" caption="Some of the equipment at our observatory" %}

